# Statistics-Multi-Linear-Regression-HDI

Abstract - 
  The Human development index (HDI) is used to measure an individuals standard of living and ultimately the socio-economic achievement of a country. This paper reviews the use of alternate predictors for HDI calculation such as: per capita GDP, expenditure on health (in%of GDP), homicide rates, proportion of safely managed drinking water sources, percentage of individuals using the internet, Consumer price index (CPI) and carbon-dioxide emissions per capita metric tons using multiple linear regression. Various regression models were evaluated and analyzed to achieve a trimmed-down desirable model with only three factors with most accuracy.


Conclusion -
  The goal of this study was to use multiple linear regression to create a model capable of estimating a country’s Human Development Index (HDI) given certain factors such as per capita GDP, expenditure on health as a percentage of GDP, Homicide rates per 1,00,000, proportion of safely managed drinking water sources as a proportion of population, percentage of individuals using internet, Consumer price index (CPI) and Carbon-dioxide emissions per capita metric tons were known. Notably, in the process of data building we had to remove many observations due to unavailability of data and restricting our research to the year 2017. Using the regression modelling iterating the process, we used the step() function to eliminate factors which were not statistically significant in estimating the HDI of a country. We were able to trim down the traditional definition of HDI with the help of only three factors namely, per capita GDP of a country, proportion of safely managed drinking water and percentage of individuals using the internet using the regression model as evident in model 3 fig.7. We achieved an adjusted R2 of 0.915 which states 91.5 percent of the variation in HDI is accounted by the three factors. Lastly, we were able to meet all the assumptions suggested by Gauss Markov theorem. Thus, based on the regression analysis, in order to improve their HDI and subsequently their world HDI ranking, countries can alternatively focus on the improving above three aforementioned factors. The suggested model can therefore be used in estimating the HDI of a country.
